Now the next thing that a lot of people are confused about is stretch goals.
So to stretch goals mean.
So once you've hit your target goal you can tell your backers where you can tell future backers that
if we reach the next milestone say your goal was 100000 write that you've reached maybe the next goal
is 1 million then we're going to tag on another thing that's going to be included in the entire package.
So if you look at Kanno which is a really simple program programming computer for kids their initial
goal was $100000.
And they reached that in actually less than a day which is pretty crazy.
And they actually work right below us in our office so we have you know them quite well and they're
really really great guys.
So they were really really successful with the first day of their campaign.
And then they decided to put up an info graphic that showed what the stretch goals were.
So this means that when they reach one million dollars then they're going to add another product to
whatever people have pledged already.
So this gives people incentive to maybe drive more traffic to the Web site.
So if you really really wanted that stretch goal you might spread the word to all your friends and family
so that they pledge as well so that you get that thing that is in the stretch goal.
And in some cases it might even be adding more hardware to the existing product.
So this is the motives stretch goal graphic.
So motive is a wearable e.g. headset which is a piece of hardware that can read your brainwaves to interpret
and you can basically control things using the power of your mind to really cool piece of tech.
And they basically said that once that campaign reaches one million then they're going to add more sensors.
And once it reaches one and a quarter million they're going to add a SD card reader and basically loads
more hardware every single time they reach of subsequent stretch goals.
Now it's really cool that they reached all their goals.
But you have to think really really hard about the math when you decide to go down the stretch go over
it because if your funding goal was $10000 and you raised a million dollars it doesn't mean that you
keep 1 million minus 10000 right.
It's not like you get an extra nine hundred ninety thousand dollars just as a bonus.
That's not how it works because more funding equals more backas the unit costs are still the same.
So when you raised $10000 say that per product you are asking people to pledge $10 when you raise a
million dollars.
People are still pledging $10 for each product.
That's not changing your profit margins aren't changing.
So it means that maybe initially when you only had 10000 backers You might have been able to store your
products in your garridge for free.
But now if you have 100000 backers are each paying $10 you'll meet a warehouse and maybe you didn't
actually account for warehousing costs when you initially came up with that unit cost of $10 per unit.
Right.
So think about your stretch goals carefully before you decide to go down that route.
So a $10 pledge times 100000 backers equals 1 million raised but it's still $10 per unit that you're
asking for.
Now out of that $10 maybe $4 is the cost of creating the initial product that you promised in your Kickstarter.
Right.
But maybe you've added a stretch goal which promised more features or more hardware and that maybe puts
the cost up from fondles the $6 which actually decreases your profit.
So I think really really hard and do the math before you decide to go down the stretch goal route.